Artificial Intelligence (Al) and Machine Learning (ML) tools for
image driven 2D materials (e.g., Graphene) discovery

Hafiz Munsub Ali, Venkata Gadhamshetty, Bharat Jasthi, Etienne Z. Gnimpieba

Abstract:

Objective: The increased interest in 2D material development lies in its ability to address diverse problems
in various domains, from infrastructure to biomedicine applications. Recent advances in data science and
data driven discovery allow scientist to leverage artificial intelligence (Al) and machine learning (ML)
techniques to tackle complex scientific challenges involved 2D material. Among various data modalities
used in 2D material discovery, microscopic and spectroscopic data present a unique capability and
involved in almost every developmental process from material design to characterization and
maintenance. This paper presents a systematic review of current advances, issues, research gaps, and
future trends in 2D material based microscopic and spectroscopic data using Al and ML techniques.
Method: We use PRISMA, an objective design method for literature reviews, for this review, whereas
PRISMA relies on a rigorous process to improve the relevance of the selected papers and the
reproducibility of the review process. Our design allowed us to query three publication databases (WoS,
PubMed, Dimensions) and focus on two key research questions. The Quality of data in relevant papers
was assessed using the FAIR (Findable, Accessible, Interoperable, Reusable) compliance criteria to
evaluate and encourage reproducibility and shareability of research outcomes. Results: PRISMA identify
31 key articles relevant to this topic. Since 2017, an upward trend in appreciation of Al and ML techniques
forthe tasks such as prediction, classification, clustering, deep learning, and Al, to solve the issues involve
2D materials using microscopic images and spectroscopic data. From the relevant set of articles, the tasks
prediction, classification, deep learning, clustering, and Al appeared 38.98%, 28.81%, 13.56%, 10.17%, and
8.47% respectively. Here, Al task refers to the combination of two or more ML methods or the
combination of one ML and one other method to solve the data driven issues. Current research trend (i.e.,
8.47%) shows that Al is still an underexplored computing technique. Conclusion: The most studied
questions are 2D new material synthesis and engineering with reasonable appreciation for functional
discovery/property, defect characterization and grain boundary, but work on corrosion application/detection
is not done yet as per our analysis. Diversity and range of microscopic and spectroscopic data implies
multi-level difficulty due to: (a) types of apparatus to generate data, (b) availability of computational
resources and domain knowledge, (c) Al and ML techniques to solve specific problems. A lack in
homogenous validation criteria for different representation and identification methods is observed which
is an obstacle in standardized performance comparisons for different Al/ML algorithms. Significance: This
review is envisioned for broader research community who may be interested to focus their research on

vou

following three keywords: “2D materials”, “microscopic mage and spectroscopic data”, “Al and ML”.
Keywords: 2D materials, microscopic images, spectroscopic data, artificial intelligence (Al), machine

learning (ML),

Table of Contents

HR Yo fo To 11 ox {fo o FOURS 3
